90linux fundamentals---paul cobbaut

http://linux-training.be

http://linux-training.be/linuxtraining_20211003.pdf

Part 1 introduction to linux


1969
 
Dennis Ritchie and Ken Thompson developed the c language and the Unix operating system at at&t Bell labs
By 1975 when at&t started selling Unix commercially hippies were not happy,the resulting legal battle and ended in there being two versions of Unix:: the official at&t Unix and the free bsd Unix

Bsd Descendants like freebsd openbsd netbsd dragonfly bsd and pc bsd is still active today.



1980

Many companies started doing their own versions of Unix 
IBM created aix
Sun created sunos later Solaris
HP created hp-ux



Gnu project (not Unix)


Richard stallman goal is to make an operating system that was freely available to everyone
And everyone could work together
Many of the command line tools are GNU tools

1990

The nineties started with Linus torvalds buying a 386 computer and writing a brand new posix compliant kernel.


2015


Today more than 90 percent of the worlds super computers and more than 80 percent of smartphones  run Linux





Chapter 2 ---Distributions




A Linux distributions is a collection of software on top of a Linux kernel

Redhat:::rhel and fedora.supports upto 7 years after release.
Fedora is a distro with faster updates but without support.

Ubuntu::: 2004  sending out free compact discs.

Debian:::there is no company behind debian.most stable Linux distributions.
Comes under 3 stable testing and unstable.
Others 



CentOS oracle enterprise Linux and scientific Linux are based on rhel


Rhel::: you're a manager and you want a good support contract.
CentOS:::you want red hat without the support of redhat
Fedora::: redhat on laptop or desktop
Linux mint::: personal graphical desktop to play movies music and games.
Debian:::try
Ubuntu::: very popular
Kali::: hacking interface
Some links to watch are 

Distrowatch.com
Redhat.com
CentOS.org
Debian.org
Linuxmint.com
Ubuntu.com



Software licences

Free and open source software and proprietary software


Public domain software and freeware

Public domain software::: author givesup all rights and which nobody is enforce any rights.


Freeware:not Foss





